# Assignment 3

## Description of Goals
For our project, we took inspiration from the dataset in the previous assignment, where we analyzed 2015 police killings in the United States. There were different questions we had, such as if the police killings had any kind of correlation/association with race, whether the victims were armed, etc. However, we were intrigued with where these shootings happened in terms of frequency. To visualize and answer our question, we decided to make a bar graph to display the marginal distribution of each state and display the count of police killings that occurred in 2015. 

## Design Choices
We had different ideas for visual encodings and interaction techniques while working on our distribution. We decided to implement a hover with each bar, so we can get more clear information on each state in particular by showing the exact count and the state name. We also added an option where a new window is displayed showing the top 5 states with the most killings. This was in the form of a pop-up window so that if the user wanted to compare the top 5 states with the rest of the 50 states they can just close the window and see the rest of the distribution. We felt that it was an effective design decision we made, especially with the ease involved in the experience. There were other ideas that we had, such as each bar being zoomed in when we hover and display the information on the bar, but we felt it would be best to just get the information without the zoom so that the whole user experience would be cleaner. We also had thoughts of making a pie chart of just the top 5 states to display the percentage/proportions and make more interactions with that, but we eventually concluded that a bar chart was the best way to visualize this kind of distribution to effectively show the count of each state. 

## Development Process
Overall, both of us spent the majority of work coming up with ideas/implementations and the code itself. We got together and decided with the dataset from the last assignment, we could transfer ideas/questions from that dataset and make an effective interaction. Overall, we would say that we spent about 16-17 hours total on this assignment, with a large portion of the time going into the implementation/code and the other portions mainly into discussing possible interactions, how we were going to visualize it, and the writeup itself. Since neither of us barely had any experience with D3, this assignment has proven to be difficult for us to successfully complete. We felt like we could have done a better job with more hands-on experience with the language. However, we tried our best and believe that the work we have done successfully has solid visual encodings, interaction techniques, and decisions regarding design.